===== Ketoret and Kyphi at a glance =====

//The idea that formulas given to Moses have been inspired by the Egyptians doesn't seem far fetched in light of all the cross cultural influence between them.// **<--(Not to mention that fact that Moses was said to have been raised as an Egyptian prince in the biblical story?)** 

Following the Biblical accounts, the Jewish priesthood was not enslaved but free to learn from the Egyptians. They became highly trained alchemists and herbalists. Once the Hebrew people left Egypt they took with them knowledge of spices and resins. It is therefore not surprising that Talmudic Ketoret  resembles Egyptian Kyphi incense.

The similarities seem substantial. Both were temple incenses produced in a very specific manner. In both cases each step of the process had to be done with great care to assure the holiness of the final product. The Papyri describe that sacred writings would have been read out to the perfumers as they compounded the formula, during preparation of Kyphi. In the case of Ketoret priests would chant and ring bells. Symbolically making Kyphi represented Isis putting together the dismembered body of Osiris so he can be resurrected. The scent of Ketoret was like that of the garden of Eden and it represented the state from before the fall. In both cases the perfume is said to bring one to their former glory.

Both formulas seem to share quite a few ingredients. The main difference between the two lies in use of honey and or raisins/fruits. These were ingredients of Kyphi that were clearly forbidden in Ketoret incense. To add them to ketoret would make it unsuitable for temple offering. The 2nd century Rabbi, Bar Kappara taught that if honey was added to ketoret that 'a man could not stand up straight because of the fragrance, and no one could have resisted the scent'.

Comparing Ketoret with Kyphi might seem like a simple matter but it proves not so. The first reference to Kyphi incense appeared in the Pyramid Texts of the Old Kingdom and the first recipe in Ebers Papyrus around 1500 BC. It has been translated as listing only some of the ingredients. Plutarch reports a different version listing 14 components with full instructions on the preparations. We also have a different version given by Galen and yet another one in anonymous Aramaic text. Some latter versions lists up to 36 ingredients. Probably the most important source for Kyphi identification comes from the Temple of Edfu and Dendara. The differences between them all make it clear that Kyphi was not a fixed formula but a type of incense that evolved and changed according with availability of the materials.
