We have a tendency to downplay this sighting and say 'kite' or 'balloon'. And maybe it is just that. I don't know. But when we were there, I didn't feel like I was looking at a kite or a balloon. I felt genuine fear. I don't care how silly it sounds to say that. 

Bristol has a balloon festival every year, and they launch from a little way south of where we had this sighting, but they don't behave in anything like the same manner. No balloon could hover over the gorge with the updrafts from the cliff in that location. 

Many people fly kites over the gorge, but we never saw one on the side of the gorge this sighting happened on. Also, they dance in the wind. I've never seen a kite hovering like that in the strong updrafts. Also this kite was huge. A lot of effort went into building it, if it was a kite. I would have expected to see it in photos from the Bristol kite festival. But we never saw it again and whilst we haven't done an investigation, searching through the Bristol kite festivals photo archives on their website has produced no matches.

What interests me however is the psychological response to the experience, of both Dana and myself, of witnessing this object. It may have the most mundane explanation, but the psychological response is very real. I mention fear, but initially I just felt awe. I simply couldn't process what I was seeing. I had a thought that I was like a medieval peasent seeing something they didn't understand and calling it a 'dragon'. I hovered pretty motionless for some time (its hard to say how long because we were both in a state of awe), before Dana had the sense to pick up the camera. As you can see, as soon as it was being filmed it lowered itself into the trees. That may have been a strange coincidence, but the fact it did that only added to the weirdness and sense of fear that this wasn't a normal event. 

We responded with fear. Rationalised fear. But fear. We decided to get away from the place and go home. We were on our way home anyway, and heading out to the site of the thing was quite a treck. If Dana's camera didn't have a 40x optical zoom, the film would have been of a tiny speck. It was getting late, we were hungry. We're shy people and didn't want to talk to the people with the kite and number of other rationalisations. We didn't really know the woods as it was our first time there. But we walked away relieved to be getting away. At least I did.

Next came denial. To some extent we still feel this. Dismissing the experience as a kite, or a balloon. Making a joke of it. Explaining it away. I can't help but wonder if its really ourselves we are trying desperately to convince.

And yet part of us wants to believe. We have a little of agent Mulder in our personalities. We have a recurring thoughts of "what if this wasn't just a kite?", "Maybe it did descend because it sensed us filming it." and so we began researching UFOs. Admittedly Dana moreso than myself, but she would share her findings with me. Some books we read together, like Jacques Vallee, John Keel, Allen Greenfield and Gray Barker. Others Dana read by herself, such as John Mack, Carl Jung and Joseph Campbell.

...
▒▒▄▀▀▀▀▀▄▒▒▒▒▒▄▄▄▄▄▒▒▒
▒▐░▄░░░▄░▌▒▒▄█▄█▄█▄█▄▒
▒▐░▀▀░▀▀░▌▒▒▒▒▒░░░▒▒▒▒
▒▒▀▄░═░▄▀▒▒▒▒▒░░█░░▒▒▒
▒▒▐░▀▄▀░▌▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░▒▒